
Desktop cookbook «LazyCooker»

Software Requirements Specification

Document

Version: 1.0	Date: (21/09/2015)
 
1.	INTRODUCTION
1.1  Purpose  

The purpose of this project is to make the process of cooking faster by creating extensive database of recipes. User can easily find recipes of all the dishes he can cook using ingredients available.

1.2  Scope 

Software product “LazyCooker” is a kind of Desktop cookbooks. That is why it should perform such functions as storing recipes in database, creating new recipes and finding them.
Unlike many other analogues, “LazyCooker” is a Desktop cookbook. That means it does not require Internet connection during its work. It is a great benefit because it significantly expands the scope of the product. This software product will be helpful for both professional cookers and users with small skills in this area.

1.3  Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations  

DB – database.
PC – personal computer.
SQL – structured query language.

1.4  References  


2.  The Overall Description  

The following subsections describe the general factors that affect the product and its requirements. 

2.1  Product Perspective  

There is a great amount of cookbooks today, both in paper and electronic variants. Electronic cookbooks can be divided into Web cookbooks and Desktop cookbooks. The number of Web cookbooks is much bigger because it is more conveniently for users. New recipes are created every day and practically all of them can be found on different Web sites. However, what should the user do in the area with no Internet connection?  
Software product “LazyCooker” was created to solve this problem. Of course, it has many analogues. The main disadvantage of these programs is their price. There are practically no free Desktop cookbooks. Another problem is a small number of recipes(less than 1000). “LazyCooker” is intended to edit these omissions.

2.1.1 Software Interfaces

DB Browser for SQLite
SQL Server
Version 3.4.0
SQLite Version 3.8.7

2.1.2 User Interfaces

The system interacts with user through GUI. It does not need specific requirements.
User’s action	Reaction
Double-click on the icon of the program	Open the program
Click on the button “Add new recipe”	Open a new window with fields for entry of information
Correctly type information and click on the button  “Add”	Return to the start window. Recipe successfully added to the DB
Incorrectly type information and click on the button  “Add”	Show the error-message
Click on the button “Delete recipe”	Delete recipe from the DB
Search for the recipe by name\part of name	Return all recipes with typed combination in its name
Search for the recipe by ingredients	Return all recipes with typed combination in its ingredients
Click on the cross icon	Close the program


2.1.3 Memory Constraints

2.2  Product Functions 

The software performs following functions:
1. Storing recipes in database.
2. Adding new recipes to the database.
3. Deleting recipes from database.
4. Searching for recipes by name.
5. Searching for recipes by ingredients.

2.3  User Characteristics 

Software product “LazyCooker” is oriented on users from all sectors of society. There are no restrictions on educational level, because it has intuitive interface. From technical experience, it is necessary to distinguish using PC on middle level.

2.4 Assumptions and Dependencies

Operating system – Windows 7/8, Linux.
Database – SQLite Browser.

3.  Specific Requirements  

3.1 Performance Requirements

Static numerical requirements:
1. The number of terminals to be supported – 1.
2. The number of simultaneous users to be supported – 1.
95% of the transactions shall be processed in less than 1 second rather than, an operator shall not have to wait for the transaction to complete.

3.2 Software System Attributes

3.2.1 Reliability

Such attribute as reliability is one of the most important because it gives guarantee that software product stably works under certain conditions. It includes: 
1. The system works equally stable under a variety of operating systems.
2. The system returns correct output data corresponding to input data.
3. The time of processing the request do not exceed 1 second.

3.2.2 Availability


1. The requirements for system recovery from a failure: the system shall allow users to restart the application after failure without losing the last saved information.   
2. The program is available for all users of PC.

3.2.3 Security

This software product is open source. It does not need a high level of security. The only type of protecting data is to restrict communications between some important areas of program and check data integrity for critical variables.

3.2.4 Portability

The software product should work equally stable under a variety of operating systems. That is why there are some special requirements:
1. Using portable language (Java).
2. Using cross-platform graphical library (Swing).




