
Web cookbook «LazyCooker»

Software Requirements Specification

Document

Version: 1.0	Date: (21/09/2015)
 
1.	INTRODUCTION
1.1  Purpose  

The purpose of this project is to make the process of cooking faster by creating extensive database of recipes. User can 
easily find recipes of all the dishes he can cook using ingredients available.

1.2  Scope 

Software product “LazyCooker” is a kind of Web cookbooks. That is why it should perform such functions as storing recipes 
in database, creating new recipes and finding them. This software product will be helpful for both professional cookers and 
users with small skills in this area.

1.3  Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations  

DB – database.
PC – personal computer.
SQL – structured query language.

1.4  References  

2.  THE OVERALL DESCRIPTION  

The following subsections describe the general factors that affect the product and its requirements. 

2.1  Product Perspective  

There is a great amount of cookbooks today, both in paper and electronic variants. Electronic cookbooks can be divided into 
Web cookbooks and Desktop cookbooks. The number of Web cookbooks is much bigger because it is more conveniently for users. 
New recipes are created every day and practically all of them can be found on different Web sites. It's very usefull to have 
all your favourite recipes in one place.
Software product “LazyCooker” was created to solve this problem. Of course, it has many analogues. The main problem is a small number of 
recipes(less than 1000). Another problem is that users have no chance to add thein own recipes. “LazyCooker” is intended to 
edit these omissions.

2.1.1 Software Interfaces

IntellijIdea 14.1
MySQL

2.1.2 USER INTERFACE

The system interacts with user through GUI. It does not need specific requirements.
User’s action	                                Reaction
Double-click on the icon of the program	      Open the start page
[1] : https://github.com/Polina-Kachanova/laba_2/blob/master/StartPage.png
Click on the button "sign up"                 Open a new psge with a form to sign up
Click on the button "Login"                   Open a new page with a form to login
Click on the button “Add new recipe”	        Open a new page with fields for entry of information
[2] : https://github.com/Polina-Kachanova/laba_2/blob/master/ThirdPage.png
Correctly type information and click on the   Return to the start page. Recipe successfully added to the DB
button  “Add”
Incorrectly type information and click on     Show the error-message
the button  “Add”	
Click on the button "Change recipe"           Change recipe.
Click on the button “Delete recipe”	          Delete recipe from the DB
Search for the recipe by name\part of name	  Return all recipes with typed combination in its name
[3] : https://github.com/Polina-Kachanova/laba_2/blob/master/FirstPage.png
[4] : https://github.com/Polina-Kachanova/laba_2/blob/master/SecondPage.png 
Search for the recipe by ingredients	        Return all recipes with typed combination in its ingredients
Click on the cross icon	                      Close the page
Sign up as admin                              The page shows information about users
Admin clicks on button "Delete users"         Delete users.

2.2  Product Functions 

The software performs following functions:
1. Sign up
2. Login
3. Adding new recipes to the database.
4. Deleting recipes from database.
5. Searching for recipes by name.
6. Searching for recipes by ingredients.
7. Setting "Likes" to favourite recipes.
8.Changing recipes.
9. Delete users (for Admin)

2.3  User Characteristics 

Software product “LazyCooker” is oriented on users from all sectors of society. There are no restrictions on educational level,
because it has intuitive interface. From technical experience, it is necessary to distinguish using PC on middle level.

2.4 Assumptions and Dependencies

Operating system – it supports all operation systems that can run Web browser.

3.  SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS 

3.1 Functional Requirements

Application's function set is represented by the following list of abilities:
- sign up.
- login.
- addinng new recipes.
- changing recipes.
- deleting recipes.
- setting "Likes" to recipes.
- finding recipes by name.
- finding recipes by ingredients.
- deletind users.

3.2 Performance Requirements

Static numerical requirements:
2. The number of simultaneous users to be supported – 100.
95% of the transactions shall be processed in less than 1 second rather than, an operator shall not have to wait for the 
transaction to complete.

3.3 Software System Attributes

3.3.1 Reliability

Such attribute as reliability is one of the most important because it gives guarantee that software product stably works under
certain conditions. It includes: 
1. The system works equally stable under a variety of operating systems.
2. The system returns correct output data corresponding to input data.
3. The time of processing the request do not exceed 1 second.

3.3.2 Availability

1. The requirements for system recovery from a failure: the system shall allow users to restart the application after failure 
without losing the last saved information.   
2. The program is available for all users of PC.

3.3.3 Security

This software product is open source. It does not need a high level of security. The only type of protecting data is to 
restrict communications between some important areas of program and check data integrity for critical variables.

3.3.4 Portability

The software product should work equally stable under a variety of operating systems. That is why there are some special 
requirements:
1. Using portable language (Java).
2. Using flexible framework (Spring).




